Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.
Subhanallah wa rahmatullah wa la ilaha illallah.
Par excellence presents, lessons from the stories of the prophets by Mufti Ismail ibn
Musa Mink. Adam, peace be upon him, on earth, part one.
All praises due to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, blessings and salutations upon Muhammad
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless him and to bless all his companions,
to bless every single one of us, to grant us goodness. Once again we ask Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala to accept from us this great act of worship that we have engaged in,
known as the tarweehah in the evenings of the month of ramadan and may Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala accept from us also the fasting and may he make us from those who fast correctly,
may he make us from those who can abstain in the true sense from those things that we
are meant to be abstaining from. Remember whilst we are fasting it is not only to
abstain or to be conscious of what is going into your mouth but even what is coming out
of your mouth. This is something that sometimes we forget about so you find people who are
fasting mashaAllah they stay away from food 10 minutes before the time right up to five
minutes after the time but throughout the afternoon they were swearing and lying and you
know engaging in all forms of bad mouthing that is not acceptable. The hadith the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam says and we repeat this every year
whosoever is not going to abstain or refrain from the vulgar or the bad speech that which
is incorrect unacceptable and the false witness and so on during the month of ramadan whilst
fasting then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala does not need the fact that they are abstaining from
their food they are actually wasting their time. That having been said yesterday we had
been speaking about how shaytan had planned with adam alayhi salatu wasalam the first
of mankind and how Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala created him today we'd like to continue from
where we left off and I'd like to make mention of a few points that we did not mention yesterday
to begin with how did the angels know that this man who's going to come onto the earth
is going to be corrupt and is going to spill blood how did they know that they said it
immediately so there are two explanations to it the first one is because of the previous experience
with what we've learned was the bin kind who were on the earth so because those who were on
the earth before that is what they did so Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala when he decided to create
insan automatically they understood that if this insan is going to go as a khalifa onto
the earth then they will also engage in something similar that is number one number
two when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala took the dust from the earth they knew that this insan is
going to go onto the earth and if he's a khalifa going to come one after the other he will want
as much as possible for himself during that life span and he will become selfish and he will
it will then result in each one becoming jealous of what the other one has and we
will see that when we get to the story of the children of adam alayhi salatu wassalaam
that is where it all started so we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us a deeper
understanding we need to know that we should defy that iblis that satan that devil who
promised Allah that we would actually follow him and not Allah we are following Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala and not iblis and something very interesting the mercy of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
is so great that if a person has to follow iblis for 70 years or for a long period of time
if for one second they have to then turn to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala everything is wiped
out every drop of evil is wiped out and they start with a new leaf so to turn a new page
is not difficult for mankind but we need to turn the page subhanallah when you're reading a book and
you've got to the end of it you want to know what's on the next page if you're not going to
take your finger and try and turn the page how is it going to turn so the same applies and
effort is required to please Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant
us forgiveness another point we need to know is yesterday we made mention of the size of adam
and we said the minimum was that he was 18 meters tall imagine what is 18 meters very very tall
mashaAllah now that is the original height of man and we've become shorter unlike what the
theory of evolution suggests that man was short and now they're becoming taller i do know that
nowadays because of all the fertilizer in the shoes of the youngsters they're becoming
taller than us mashaAllah or should i say all the genetically modified foods and so on
but that does not mean that they are as tall as those before them we know of the previous nations
who used to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says they used to carve the mountains to live in the
mountains imagine what must have happened at the time how big they must have been so we are
minute compared to them not only that they had an average life span of 1 000 years and
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says
the lifespan of the members of my ummah is between 60 and 70 years i always like to say if a
person has clocked 70 they're actually now in extra time it is a gift of Allah they can now
prepare even better to meet with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala may Allah have mercy on all of us
remember no matter how long you live you have to go no matter how long you live you have to go
there is no ways you are not going to go so the best the best bet if you were to take a bet
is to prepare for when you are going some people don't want to understand that which is
so simple there are still people who say no let me enjoy well if you go whilst you're
enjoying there will be no enjoyment thereafter so the best bet is to work hard it's like a
person saying let me not study for the exams and then you have the examination who was foolish
it is you to blame may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding so
when we are going to be resurrected on the day of qiyamah we will all be the height of adam
alayhi sallatu wasallam every one of us will be 18 meters tall imagine every one of us
will be 18 meters tall very interestingly the hadith of rasul allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam makes mention of when the trumpet will be blown everything will come to an end
everything will be destroyed and thereafter there will be a rain a thick white rain that will fall
on the earth and allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will cause with that rain the humankind to grow
just like trees grow just like trees grow humankind will grow into what is known as the
or onto the plains of the where allah wants to resurrect us we don't know exactly where we've
just been given a slight description but wherever allah has chosen for that land of we will all be
resurrected and we will grow like trees that is a hadith of and it is mentioned very clearly
and do you want to know every time allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention
of the rain of mercy in the quran he always makes mention of the fact that this is how we will be
resurrected when the rain of mercy falls down on the earth the dead earth which was brown suddenly
becomes green and it grows things grow and allah says
in another place he says
in that way you shall be resurrected in the same way we will take out the dead
so every time you see the rain and you see something grow you should think of resurrection
how we will also be resurrected and allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says we were taught through
the lips of rasool allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam that we will be growing to 18 meters
and we will be growing to a certain age what is that age 33 years of age so 18 meters and
the peak of your age is 33 you will be at the age of 33 on condition that you died after
puberty those who died prior to puberty and they were children their condition is different
they will be waiting for their parents and they will be interceding on behalf of their
parents by the permission of allah subhanahu wa ta'ala if allah wills and permits but
they will be waiting and this is why we say those who have lost their children either through
stillbirth or through miscarriage or in infancy those children by the will of allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala will be waiting in the akhirah and they will plead with allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
ya allah you did not give my mother the time to have me and to probably play with me
and so on so ya allah i want my mother to come with me into jannah my parents should
come with me into jannah so this is the pleading of the little child and if this mother
happened to be from amongst those who tried to please allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and the
parents bore patience for the sake of allah subhanahu wa ta'ala when they suffered the loss
by the will of allah that will be a means of their entry into jannah it will be a means of
their entry into jannah so this is a point of comfort so we need to know everyone will be at
the age of 33 and they will be 18 meters tall and then allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will begin
taking hesaab or the reckoning will commence may allah make that day easy for us all
so allah subhanahu wa ta'ala thereafter makes mention of the day the day which adam alayhi
salatu was salam was created it is also a narration in sahih muslim again by abu huraira
where he says friday is the best day that the sun has risen upon why it is the day that adam
was created so that was from the lips of muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam he told us it
is the day that adam was created and it is the day that he was granted entry into paradise
what does that mean from that hadith we understand that he was created there is
difference of opinion where exactly he was created was he already created in paradise or
in another place in a place that allah knows so from this narration it seems like he was created
and then he was put into paradise from this narration because it says
on that day he was granted entry into jannah
the hadith continues to say and the day of resurrection will not happen except on a friday
so it is the most powerful of the days of allah subhanahu wa ta'ala now on a friday what time
of the day was adam alayhi salam created very interesting one of the correct narrations
makes mention of the fact that he was created in the last hour of the friday which would mean
between asr and maghrib so this is why you know that there is an hour in or on a friday
when any dua that is made is accepted that is a correct narration authentic that there is one
hour sometime during the day on a friday when if you are making a dua at that moment then
it will definitely be accepted so what is your bet we don't know the exact hour and we
don't know what it is some say it is when the imam goes up some say it is between the
sitting of the imam and some say it is this time and that time and so on your best bet
repeat the dua the whole day on a friday allahu akbar just repeat the dua
allahu akbar may allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors we normally try to think of something
logical and this makes the most sense so when it comes to the creation of adam alayhi
salatu wasalam we see it was in the last hour and this is why we are taught to make
dua also at that particular time on a friday and it's very interesting that this is mentioned
in the hadith of rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam yesterday we spoke about how hawa
was created from the rib of adam alayhi salatu wasalam there is a narration that makes
mention of what happened when she was created yes she came in as a gift he was very happy
he asked her who are you question who are you she says i am a woman you are a woman
subhanallah i am created as a pair for you yes he was very lonely so now he was happy
he says why were you created she says for me to give you comfort company
so lace subhanallah now this is what is meant to be achieved by marriage up to today when you
marry what you meant to be getting from marriage is comfort it is company companionship
someone whom you can spend the rest of your life with mashallah in harmony in peace who
will bring you lots of goodness but what happens nowadays they tell you this is not
the same man i knew when i was dating him that's what he said when i was dating
him he was such a like a guy yes this is what people say no do you know what was happening
when we were dating shaitaan was beautifying now that we're married shaitaan goes away then
he comes back with a new task the same evening how to separate the two he was achieving by
making us commit sin before marriage and thereafter when we got married he now is trying to achieve
by making us fight this is why when we follow what allah says we won't go wrong if you have
married based on proper character and conduct and dean and so on that will remain intact and
we will be able to recognize how shaitaan is coming into our lives i normally tell people
on campus with all due respect to those adversity do you go to the university to get married
they say no we went to study so when you went to study what happened you came back married
mashallah if you come back married it can work alhamdulillah if you know how to do it and if
you know how for example to choose a spouse but sometimes the environment on campus and we
need to know this is common for all so for that reason we see someone on campus in that environment
we get on with them because there's so much in common the minute we take them home after
marriage it's a totally different environment she doesn't like it there and we don't like
it in her environment it no longer works had you remained on campus all your life your
marriage would have blossomed you'd probably have children who were professors as well may
Allah grant us goodness and understanding this is obviously just a point to try and make mention
of how important it is to choose a spouse correctly wherever it is we're not trying to
say this is wrong or that's wrong if we do it the wrong way it's wrong if we do it with
Allah in mind it's correct inshallah so Allah makes mention of this and we know that
was created from the rib of Adam and I did make mention and I repeat and I stress that is
not an insult to women it not at all if that was an insult to women it is a bigger insult it would
have been a bigger insult for the fact that man was created from dust if you were to ask me what
is better a rib or dust we would probably say a rib because you can't eat dust mashallah
so my beloved brothers and sisters let's understand this and let us understand and realize
no need to be apologetic no need to say that we have been degraded by the prophet
oh by Allah no ways no it is an honor and that honor shall remain intact up to the day of Qiyamah
then Allah speaks also about Iblis and we made mention of the point where Iblis
was instructed with the angels to prostrate to Adam and you recall what he says he says no
I won't not me I'm better than him so whose sin was it it was the first sin being committed
against Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala that sin was committed by shaitan so he became known as
the accursed and the one who was thrown out by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala listen to what Allah says
when we instructed the angels to prostrate to Adam they all did besides when we when we instructed
the angels to prostrate to Adam they all did besides Iblis he refused that means he refused flat
so we said oh Adam look at this enemy of yours he is an enemy of yours you better
know from now that he's an enemy of yours make sure that he doesn't work his plan against you
to remove you from this paradise and the goodness you are in now just bear this in mind
because we mentioned it yesterday today I want to derive a different lesson from the same verse
so now Iblis what did he do he looks at Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and he's very angry because
Allah kicked him out of paradise Allah kicked him out of paradise as a result so he was no longer
there but now what happened is he says to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala that oh Allah because of
what you've done now I'm going to show you that this mankind I'm going to lead him astray
and I'm going to come to him from all sides from the left from the right from the front from the
back from the bottom but he did not make mention of the top he didn't make mention of the top
why Allahu akbar Iblis he once he will never ever come whilst we know he's coming if we had
to know he's coming we would run away if you know a thief is coming you would go
but if you don't know the thief is coming he's got to come quietly when you're looking that
way he comes from this side when you're looking this way he comes from that side
when you're looking there he comes from there and so on and he comes in a disguise
and at the top you find Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's protection always and Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala grants us protection at all times and if we are to raise our hands to the owner
of entire universe to protect us from the devil then he will never ever be able to harm
us he will not but Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says this Iblis he started blaming Adam alayhis
salam he started blaming Adam to say because of you I've been removed now think for a moment
was that the reason why he was removed was he removed because of Adam no it was his sin
that made him cursed now let's draw a lesson for our lives here when we have a problem in
our lives when we have difficulty we blame others sometimes when we are the root cause
when we have done something wrong and sometimes we have a problem whether it's at work
whether it is internationally the wars that are going on whether it is
nationally whether it is at the in the home or at work wherever it is
we do not address the root cause so we never ever solve the problem look at Iblis he did
not want to tackle the root cause what kicked him out of Jannah was not Adam it was his sin
his own sin so instead of saying ya Allah I'm sorry I sinned and I was wrong and now you've
kicked me out because I was wrong so I blame myself he decided to ignore the root cause
and to go to blame Adam who was innocent of that what was Adam alayhis salam's crime
nothing today if we look at the issue of terrorism across the globe everybody says the
Muslims are terrorists these people are this nobody went to look at the root cause how did
it start where did it go what oppression began what resulted in this result that we are seeing
today what is it let us address the root cause nobody wants to look at that everybody wants
to say these people are this and these people are that that having been said Islam does not
preach terrorism at all not at all and I think that is quite clear to all of us we promote
harmony we promote peace we promote dignity we promote respect we promote security we promote
peace in every single way we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us peace across the globe
but when you get a criminal coming to create havoc and then they blame you it only reminds
you of Iblis the devil who did refuse to prostrate and then he started blaming Adam
alayhis salatu was-salam so we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us a deep
understanding and to make us look at the root causes of the problem we have whether it's in
our homes whether it's in our businesses or social level whatever other level may Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala solve our problems for us then you have Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
raising the point that Iblis went to Adam alayhis salam and he says
I want to show you this tree here there are two things you'll achieve from it one is you will
have life forever which means health and life you're going to live forever and two is you'll
have lots of ownership you'll own a lot so Adam alayhis salatu was-salam one might ask
how did Iblis get this message to him when Iblis was already kicked out of Jannah
it's a very very interesting question he was kicked out of Jannah how did he communicate
so now we go back to another verse of the Quran where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
he and his own army they see you from a position that you do not see them
they have this sort of remote control what we know today as bluetooth effect wi-fi they call it
wireless so the same way we have this wireless and bluetooth it's easily understood
your connection is not here but you're connected where is it it's in the a
how did it get here well through remote control there's something between here and there
that I don't understand you don't understand maybe a few you know fundis understand that
only Allah knows so Iblis knew how he got the message from outside Jannah he got the
message into Jannah how he did that he knows Allah warned us and Allah said watch out be
careful didn't we say moments ago he won't come to you direct and show you I'm Iblis and I want
to do this to you he won't come that way secondly it is reported that there was a serpent
serpent from the army of Iblis that was in there and he came hiding he was hiding in the
throat or in the neck or inside the serpent and he came and then he spoke
now one of these two Allah knows best exactly which one it is but what we do know as a
conclusion is that he came in secret and he came without coming out full force to Adam
apparently he didn't appear he just came in a way that he was not seen properly in disguise
and so on so he told Adam these two things you will achieve what happens to us
when we are sick we first go to the doctor mashallah the doctor mashallah we make dua
to Allah and we say yeah Allah cure me then we go to the doctor and then we get our medication
and we start having it a month passes we're not getting better two months past we're not
getting better now what happens the same shaitan comes back and he says he's telling you the
same thing can I show you a different way I want to show you there's another way you can
get your health back let's go to the witch doctor let's go to the nanga let's go to the
fortune teller let's go to some one who calls himself a big maulana who can tell you
exactly who did magic on you finished what happened we fall into the same trap for what
for health and life Allahu akbar look at the exact trap that is used by the same iblis
against us who are the khulafa of adam alayhi salam we came after him and he's using the same
trap the the moral of what is being said is whenever we are sick we pray to Allah very
strong prayers we can ask others to pray for us there's no problem we can visit the doctor
we can get medication but we will not do anything that displeases Allah in order to
achieve good health because come what may we have to die whether today or tomorrow and we
are failing our test if we've done something that displeases Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala so anything
that is disallowed we are far away from that and we need to be far away from that that is
what we learn another point that is learned sometimes our business is failing we have a
loss then it burns down then we happen to grow it up again and then a robber comes and then
we happen to do something and the tax man comes and we just failing one after the other what
do we say we are not satisfied we will go from one man to another i think i'm suffering bad luck
here so what should you do he tells you you you need to take three bones and you need to
put them in a certain mercedes benz sign and then you need to take three lemons and put one
in each compartment of that mercedes benz sign and the the lemon needs to not weigh more than
80 grams and then you need to squeeze each lemon with five drops coming out of the lemon
and then you need to take that juice together and take a little bit of saffron
by hearing this already we need to know that that is iblis what is it let me tell you when
you're sick and someone says cut five lemons go and get 10 roses what is happening let me explain
it's very important for us to explain iblis is laughing at us and laughing at Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala that's all he's doing he says look didn't i warn you that i'm going to lead
these people to worship me when you tell them pray when you are sick and go and seek proper
medication when you are sick and do that that you are allowed to do when you are sick you watch
they're not going to listen to you i'll tell them cut 80 lemons they'll go and cut them i'll
tell them go i heard one man tell a certain woman that someone has done magic on you and
it is someone from your own family so it broke the whole family to pieces how did they know
did jibreel come to them if jibreel didn't come to them then iblis came to them
and when iblis comes he pretends he's a muslim he tells you i'm a jinn i'm a clean jinn i'm
a muslim i'm a sahabi i know the prophet he definitely knows everything as we said here
let's learn the lesson from this when iblis comes he comes in disguise so those who think
they control a jinn if that jinn tells you it's a muslim it's not a muslim
because in the sharia of the jinn they are not allowed to come close to you as mankind
allah says oh jinn kind you've made enough fools out of these mankind
enough of them and in surah to the jinn go and read it allah says
there are so many men from mankind who seek protection and goodness and cure from jinn kind
but it only increases them in becoming more and more astray and in greater misfortune
and in more difficulty that's what surah to jinn tells us so are we allowed to seek the
assistance of jinn the answer is no and this lesson is for those who claim to be owning jinn
and to be having jinn believe me if iblis could lie to adam alayhi salam for him to lie to us
is far more easy because adam alayhi salam knew him he saw him he recognized him he knew
everything and still he was gone with us we haven't even seen him so let us not be fooled
there is no quick fix like when a person doesn't have wealth he can either work very very hard and
have a salary every day he's earning a little bit and slowly but surely he becomes rich that
is the difficult way but it is the permissible way and you are passing your test or he can
choose to go and steal at night and go and rob and go and take this and that and go and
engage in armed robbery he will have a lot of wealth but his life will be misery he will
live in constant fear of being caught and so on what's the point but he became rich and he
stole from so many people and then suddenly when that pyramid scheme crashes everything comes to
a halt may allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us all understanding and goodness the same way with
health when we are sick you pray and you continue and you try the permissible means and
you try from the quran and the correct sunnah of the prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
and thereafter the cure will come to you slowly but surely but if you want a quick fix you can
go to the the witch doctors and the others who will fix you overnight but what did they do
they used iblis who's laughing at you laughing at allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and saying ya allah
look i made fools of all these people so we need to know we need to understand there is
great detail i don't have the time to go into exactly how it works but it's quite simple
the spirits that we have with us they are called spirits by the local african traditionalists
but we call them the quran a kareen every person has an angel and they have a devil a jinn the
angel is ordering you to do good the kareen is ordering you to do bad and you are the soul who
allows one of the two to win if you allow the good force to win you become a good person you
allow the bad force to win you become a bad person when a person dies his soul goes back
to allah subhanahu wa ta'ala never to return and his body decomposes into the earth unless allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala wills such as the bodies of the prophets allah says in allah
that allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has prohibited the earth from eating the bodies of the
messengers of allah subhanahu wa ta'ala so with those exceptions the rest of us the
body actually will decompose back into the earth and what happens to the devil what
happens to the angel it gets given a different task by allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and it's gone
and that devil what happens to it it roams around where a lot of them roam in the graveyard a lot
of them come back pretending to us that the souls have come back so some people believe
hey the soul came back and you know on this day the souls come back no soul comes back the
soul goes to barzakh the soul goes to a different place all together it is this spirit
or should i say this kareen that comes back it tackles it plays games it does this it
knows history it knows you better than yourself because it was with you since the time you were
born so it knows exactly what happened now what does it do it starts playing a game
people start beckoning the spirits in order to beckon the spirits you need to do something
silly very silly you need to cut 80 lemons or you need to do something sometimes people
instruct you to murder sometimes they ask you to bring a tongue of a human being sometimes
they ask you to cut a dove sometimes they ask you to do any form of silly items which do
not make sense at all then you you get the strength and you start you can talk to your
great-grandfather and he'll talk to you in the voice you remember allahu akbar but that is all
a joke and it is all unacceptable it is possible it can be done in the same way a robbery can
happen it is possible to engage in robbery but the sin of it it is sinful and it is not
permissible the same applies this type of behavior is possible but it is disallowed
and this is what we learn from iblis iblis from the beginning he promised i'm going to come to them
how remote control i'm going to come to them in a way that i will disguise myself even the
good from amongst them will not know the difference so allah says
my worshipers who are going to worship me allah says over them you will have no power no
authority may allah make us from the true worshipers of allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
then allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala speaks about the issue of adam alayhi salatu wassalaam's sin
allah says
adam alayhi salam forgot we found that he had no firm intention of sinning he did not have
a firm intention of sinning he was not resolute in sinning as we mentioned yesterday
so people begin to ask remember we're drawing lessons people ask sheikh tell us why did adam
alayhi salam commit the sin why what is it why did he commit the sin come on do you know what's
the answer to that well look he was not resolute in committing that he made a mistake what about
you why are you committing sin allahu akbar that's a better question so look at how shaitan
comes to us and makes us engrossed in why someone else sinned and in the process we're sinning he
was not resolute in his sin we planned the sin we calculate the sin we are intentionally committing
the sin we engage in the sin and we happy about it after that and we plan it again and we want
to commit it again and then we're saying but why did adam sin astaghfirullah look again how
shaitan's plot comes back to us so it's important look at yourself
that's a hadith of the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam give good news of paradise to the one
whose own weaknesses keeps him or her occupied from looking at the weaknesses of others we
want to look at that man this one that one you know one day there was a question that
someone asked me and says what is the ruling of an imam who is the imam of the masjid who
enters the masjid with the left foot so i asked one of the mashaikh that look what is it he says
right back to them to say keep that imam he's a very good imam and he must be given an increase
in his salary and so on and i looked and i said but why he says you know what you don't
have much experience i will tell you these people must have been looking for something
wrong with that imam to kick him out they found absolutely nothing the only thing was
he entered the masjid with the left foot so they said what's the ruling of an imam with
the left foot and they wanted you to say kick him out but instead give them the opposite
allahu akbar if that was the only thing they could find he must be a top imam allahu akbar
may allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala grant us recognition and understanding and may he
give us the ability to look into what people are saying sometimes we are interested in the
sins of others not realizing they are heavenly people and we are people who are far back and
we are sinful so allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala speaks of something also very important that occurred
and we did not make mention of this yet there was a time when adam alayhi salam was created
allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala from his back removed all his progeny up to the day of qiyamah including
every single one of us and showed it to adam says yeah adam this is going to be your
progeny you will be succeeding one after the other he was shocked so allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
asked everybody this question there was a question this question is made mention of in the quran
listen to the verse
allah says and remember
when allah took from the children of adam from the back allah took out all the children of adam
and brought them forth and asked them a question am i not the one who created you
and they all answered yes indeed it is you and they said yes indeed you are
so allah says do not come on the day of qiyamah and say we have forgotten about our
covenant that we took with you and this question tell me how many of us remember this
not one not one so allah says no problem we will keep on sending you reminders of this
so that is why we have the quran and that is why in the quran we have this verse and that
is why we believe that that happened and the very next verse allah says and i don't want any
one of you to come and say our forefathers were associating partners with you oh allah and
we had no sin we only followed them allah says there is no excuse each one of you is
responsible for your own deeds and you have all taken this covenant with me you need to
question what your forefathers have done if they have done what was right alhamdulillah
if they have done what was wrong you need to delete it you need to stop it you need to
change it you need to do something about it because remember when you go to allah
you will be asked a question individually
none of you are such except that allah will speak to every single one of you
directly without a translator between the two of you nothing and he will ask you what you did
and he will want the answer so the hesaab is not going to be taken by angels it will be
taken by allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala prepare a response for him and that response always
be on the safe side may allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala grant that to us so when that happened adam alayhi
salatu wasalam he looked at these faces and they were lit and he seen one shiny face and he
says who is this so allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala says that is a man from one of the later
nations towards the end of time he will come up his name is davud david may peace be upon him
so adam alayhi salam out of curiosity is asking allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala yeah allah
what life did you give him for me you told me you're going to give me a thousand years
he was told already so what life did you give him so allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala says
we gave him 60 years he says what 60 years that's very little now look at the love
between the two one is the first human being and this is part of his progeny
and this is why parents can sometimes sacrifice their lives in order to make the lives of their
children and this is why whenever you ask a man why are you earning so much he says no i'm just
preparing everything for my children all this i'm doing is for my children that's a common
answer so adam alayhi salatu wasalam asks he says can you not increase him 40 years so
allah says we can take it from your life and give him so from a thousand we can cut down 40
and give him so he'll become 100 so allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala got confirmation from adam he
says okay you give him 40 years from mine amazing daud alayhi salam lived for 100 years
subhanallah and adam alayhi salam i'm just fast forwarding the day that he 960 years
were finishing in the angels of death came we'll get to that story inshallah
he says hang on there's still another 40 years there's still another 40 years and he they said
no don't you remember that you gave this 40 years to daud he says no i don't remember
allahu akbar he forgot so man forgets that's a hadith the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
says this in an authentic hadith that he forgot so man forgets and according to some
versions of the meaning of the term insan some versions of the arabic language say that
that man was called insan because it is from which means to forget man is forgetful adam
alayhi salam forgot he forgot two things what else did he forget he forgot right at the
beginning when allah told him don't eat from this tree remember yesterday we said he forgot
today we repeated the same verse he forgot and we didn't find him resolute in committing sin
but rather it was out of forgetfulness so he forgot why because iblis the way he says things
sometimes you forget he comes to you first time directly to say look allah prohibited this but
this is why he prohibited it you say no that doesn't work with me so he comes again in
another way and he comes in a third way until he succeeds and whoever wins over him gets
paradise this is why in one narration when adam alayhi salam was sent to the earth he makes a
dua to allah he talks to allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says ya allah didn't you create me with your
own hands he says yes ya allah didn't you honor me as the first he says yes ya allah
didn't you instruct the angels to prostrate to me he says yes ya allah didn't this iblis not
prostrate to me he says yes ya allah didn't you decree that i was going to do this he
says yes so ya allah if i pray to you and i obey your commands will you grant me jannah
allah says yes i will subhanallah so this is for us if we pray to allah and we seek forgiveness
where are we going back to jannah allahu akbar this is the message this is why we are here
allahu akbar may allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness these are some powerful
powerful lessons that we learn from this story of adam alayhi salatu wassalam
then we have a very interesting point again allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says in many places in the
quran that we instructed adam and eve meaning hawwa may peace be upon them we told them
go to the earth in fact we addressed adam and iblis as well we said now go
go to the earth so iblis was allowed entry onto the earth at one stage he was prohibited
from heaven and thereafter he was allowed entry onto the earth and he was told go there go and
dwell there so he came down adam alayhi salam came down and allah subhanahu wa ta'ala told adam
alayhi salam i will continue sending you guidance and your progeny and offspring guidance
whoever follows the guidance they won't go astray and they won't be unfortunate subhanallah
so up to today
whoever is going to follow my guidance i'm not going to leave you alone i'm going to
send you guidance whoever follows the guidance they will not be led astray nor will they be
unfortunate so now what happens with us we need to know allah sends guidance allah sent the quran
this is why the quran is there the quran is powerful it is the guidance for us as allah
promised and he sent this book and he sent so many books before the quran if we are to
follow the quran we will never ever be misguided nor will we be unfortunate and this
is why those who lack contentment it's because they have drifted far away from allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala this is the time to come back to allah it is the time to come back everyone is
searching and hunting for contentment you have people who are atheistic people who are agnostic
people who have different beliefs people who think that this is the life and that's it we
got to make the most of it but they're not happy there is something missing because they
don't have belief they think we are just going to die and we're going to rot and that's it
allah says no there is a beginning you need belief and that is what will make you a person
who's enjoying contentment man is created such that without spirituality he cannot enjoy this
life of his so we need the spirituality and we need this belief it's important for us to
know this so allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has warned us and this is why adam alayhi
salatu wasalam was sent to the earth and he was given this as a message and on top of that
he was told
life which is very narrow very full of difficulty lack of contentment that which is it does not
have any form of joy in it it is completely shallow and narrow full of difficulty and
problem lack of contentment and so on and when we resurrect him on the day of qiyamah he will
be blind so he will say oh allah how did you resurrect me blind when i could see whilst
i was alive on the earth and allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will say we will tell him didn't we
send you reminders and you turned a blind eye against those reminders so today we've resurrected
you blind you turned away from us so today you will be forgotten as well may allah not make
us from amongst those now if we look at adam alayhi salam he came down onto the earth he
was sent to the earth there's a question where did he land he was he wasn't just thrown so
that suddenly he landed meaning he dropped but allah placed him on the earth this we find in
the narration of rasool allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam where he says that adam alayhi salam
nazala fil hind he came down in what is known as the indo pack subcontinent precisely sri lanka
there is a mount there known as adam's peak if you go there you will find it green
and beautiful as though it is not from this earth but it is i'm not trying to imply anything
but i'm just saying it is so beautiful maybe because the sri lankans have kept it that way
but it's a beautiful place it is it is said that there is a possibility that that is
the place we don't know for certain that that spot is the place but roughly there
what about hawa where did she come down in jidda where is jidda jidda is in the arabian
peninsula in what we know today as saudi arabia and what is the meaning of jidda or jadda
or judda it means the grandmother it is named after her subhanallah now what happened they
started looking for each other i remember meaning i can imagine i'm just saying for myself i can
imagine them thinking i remember there was someone you know we had hawa here where is
she let's start looking and he started looking subhanallah if you picture it you can imagine
and adam alayhi salam began to walk and he started walking towards where the sun was setting he
started walking towards the west and eve hawa alayhi salatu was salam as a female she didn't
walk too much but she also tried to look for adam alayhi salam no that does not mean that
women are not interested no not at all not at all according to what some of the historians
have to say they met in arafah and this is why where the white pillar is the historians
have made mention of i haven't found it in a correct narration authentic narration but they
say that that where arafah is where we actually gather that is where the two met wallahu alam
allah knows best and this shows us subhanallah that man you know when we are separated from
our spouses it should hurt us it should make us want to get back we should do anything to
solve the matter this is what it is i think that is a lesson that is drawn here if we
want to learn something from adam alayhi salam he didn't just wait for another woman to come along
no he didn't he knew that i have a wife let me make an effort and do you know he walked half the
globe imagine and he got to her allahu akbar allahu akbar imagine what must have been i
don't know it's not made mention of in narrations but it there's no harm in thinking
what must have been the emotions when the two saw each other they must have thought i don't
know but i'm just imagining subhanallah imagine after what effort how many of us are prepared
to solve our marital problems by making even one millionth of that effort it's a lesson
today a small thing we flick the marriage off small thing flicked off go for someone else small
thing it didn't work why for what may allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors may he
grant us jannah we have a lot more to say inshallah we leave it for tomorrow until we meet again